
Lab 2 summary

2.1:
pwd command works the same in both.

ls command works the same in both besides file structure, but running LS yields different results.
LS in Ubuntu tells you the command is not found, but gives you a command to
install it while CentOS just tells you its not found.

uname gives the same resuts.

ls -a gives the same results besides the file structure.

ls --all, ls -l, ls -r, ls -alr, and ls -a -l -r is almost the same story as ls -a.
the ls commands that also list the permissions has the home directory
in CentOS only acessable by the owner and in Ubuntu everyone else can read.

uname -a is similar in both systems, Ubuntu is mentioned in the command output while in
CentOS its name is no where to be seen.
uname -s is the same.
uname -n in CentOS gives 'localhost.localdomain' and Ubuntu just gives 'localhost'
uname -m gives the same architecture result.
uname -p and uname -i acts just like uname -m
uname -o is the same in both.

ls -rw 40 functionaly the same besides file structure.

ls -wr 40 gives similar output. In Ubuntu the r is wrapped in single quotes and
in CentOS the r is independent.

ls –w 40 –I "T*" yields same result in both.

ls --all –rl is the same in both.

ls --color=never removes color in both the systems output.

touch –d “1970-01-01 12:00:00” -- --badname does same thing.
ls –-full-time -- --badname gave similar result, but in Ubuntu
near the end was +0000 and in CentOS was -0500

touch 1pickfile.txt and rm 1picfile.txt had the same result in both systems.

cp /etc/hosts myhosts copies the file over in both systems.

echo something new!!, echo "something new!!", and echo 'something new!!' all
evaluated the same on both systems.

alias l='ls -ar' and unalias l works the same in both systems.

the ec [tab] bash feature works the same in both systems.

doing ca [tab] does functionaly the same in both systems, but both have
different commands starting with ca

type pwd and type man have the same output in both systems.

2.2:
man ls brings up the man pages for both systems, but in CentOS there is color for some text.

h gives the same help page, but again in CentOS there is color for some text.

q quits the help page in both systems.

another q brings us back to the terminal. One big difference is that in Ubuntu, the terminal is
restored to where it was left of before the command was ran. In CentOS the terminal was not cleaned.

man 5 passwd works in Ubuntu, but in CentOS there is no manual entry passwd in section 5.

q to quit gives the same behavior as mentioned earlier.

man -k passwd gives a different list in both systems, though some entries such as chgpasswd (8) are in both

man -f passwd in Ubuntu gives three entries while in CentOS there is only sslpasswd (1ssl) and passwd (1)

whatis passwd gives the same result as man -f passwd in both systems.

man man gives the same man page in both systems.
